What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When we initialize a repository, a .git (hidden) file gets added which keeps all the commit records and metadata of the repository.
We need to do it because we need those commit records so that we can arrive to this point in future in case of any condition.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

Working directory is just the collection of files while the staging area is the area where files are added to be tracked
by git. Repository is a place where i think all the data, the files and the .git file which contains data about data, and history is stored.
The value it offers: It tracks the untracked files by Git which can later be commit to store a commit point in Git log.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

After making changes to a file keep adding them to staging area. Then whenever you feel that you have changed enough that you have arrived 
to logical change, commit it.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Branches are very helpful when we want to do a different thing wiht our existing project. Suppose you want to create similar model with
some different features but slightly. And you want both these projects to be separated because of this difference in concept. This is
where branching helps us.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

When we are extending a project to some changes parallely and then we want to merge our work to the original work but along with not just 
our work it may happen than multiple parallel branched may add up to form a new master then we use Branching.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Pros: 

A) Automatic merging: Fast, no user guidance.
B) Manual: Overhead to judge code or paste them in a fashion of non conflicting statements.

Cons:

A) Automatic merging: Might cause some serious conflicts.
B) Manual: No chance of conflicts.